(upbeat music)
- [Tutor] Now it's time to show you my solution.
But before we get there,
I want to chat a little bit about the testing strategies
that I used, because I think it's a very good one.
Now, first and foremost, I'm a big fan of writing tests.
I especially like to spend time
on negative and boundary conditions.
I guess a lot of this comes from my entry into this industry
as a software tester.
Now I'm going to assume that you're using TDD
or some similar process.
And if so, the first thing you're going to do
is write your happy path test.
Now you should write a test that implements
an injection attack, and you saw that in my example.
You should do this for every single data access method
that accepts input.
And if you have multiple inputs,
you should write a test that injects into each one of those.
There's a valid reason for doing this.
It lets you test each of those conditions separately,
and now you're going to write your code
and then you're going to make sure that your tests always pass.
Now with that being said,
let's take a look at my solution.
Before we get to the solution, let's take a look
at the problem.
So we've got loaded for you here, the PrecedentDAO,
which is where you should have found the SQL injection
to begin with.
And here on line 16,
you'll see that I've created a string format.
So instead of straight concatenation,
I'm using formatting and in that formatting,
I'm replacing it with an input in this case, LAST_NAME.
So what will happen then is that entire LAST_NAME
will be injected as if it were raw string concatenation
and that's where the problem set comes from.
So just to show you that I fixed it,
I'm going to run my test real quick
and then we'll talk about how we fixed it.
And both of my tests pass, which is what I would expect.
And I made no modifications to the test file in my solution.
So let's take a look at how I fixed this.
So what I did was on line 16,
I changed the SQL statement to include a question mark
for the variable,
instead of doing string concatenation or string formatting.
Then on line 20, I set a statement parameter,
setString equal to the lastName.
And then I executed the query and continue down the path
of looking at the results sets and populating our data.
So what happens then is that because that Trump's statement
where it says Trump equals one or one,
no data exists with that lastName.
As such it returns zero,
which is why our test was now able to pass,
whereas before it failed when we got 45 results back.
And that's my solution to how to do SQL injection.
It's pretty straightforward
and really that should be your pattern
whenever you're doing straight data access with JDBC
is to actually go through and do the query parameters
in such a way that you're binding variables
instead of concatenating 'em.
Do that for everything and you'll never run into issues
with SQL injection in the Java language.